>> Oh, I was so happy all
weekend for winning that
ballgame Friday.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I love it.
I'm going to play just as
long as I'm able to play.
Lot of people say,
oh, I can't play
because I've got arthritis
and this, that, and the other.
You're on the court, you
forget all about that.
>> I know you wouldn't think
when you reach 70 years old,
you're not supposed to be
running up and down the court,
but we enjoy it.
>> My grandson said, why
don't you go play with them?
You always come to my games.
I'll go to your games.
>> You know, if it's
not important to win,
why do you go out there to play?
>> You know, we've been
competitive all our lives.
I'm a competitive person.
Yeah.
And I think you either
are or you're not.
And the girls on the team are.
And I want to win.
I don't care what
it is I'm playing.
My objective is to win.
So I guess I'll die with
that competitive spirit.
>> Oh, yeah.
I'm gonna be in the game.
>> We don't like to lose
to anybody for any reason,
anytime, anywhere, anyhow.
>> Everybody give it your all.
This is it.
Last game.
We want to medal.
That's what it's all
about, medaling, OK?
>> Thank you, dear.
>> Oh, he's the one
that hugs us every year.
>> Yay!
Wooo!
>> This right here
was the national one.
And lots of gold ones.
We played a lot of games
and I won a lot of medals.
>> I hope I keep
on until I'm 100.
No.
I want to win one more
nationals anyway, before I quit.
>> Several of us played very
competitive basketball when we
were high school age.
>> This is back in the days when
you had three guards and three
forwards up here and
you didn't cross over.
Girls weren't able to
play like the boys.
>> But this three on three
half-court was an entirely
different experience, because
now you're not a guard
or a forward.
You're everything.
>> Twig coached us
for a long time.
>> Well, Sarah's Twig's wife,
so right from the start it was
always interesting when she and
Twig would get fussing about
something.
>> He would say, y'all just
can't do anything right.
And I'd try to say,
Twig, we went for years
and didn't play organized ball.
You've played it all your life.
He knows more little things
than I will ever learn.
>> I never was taught how to
screen and roll in high school,
so it's hard on me to do that.
I'm trying my best
to do it, but it's
hard to learn it
when we get our age.
>> Liz is our little run
around on your own deal.
You design plays
and sometimes Liz
forgets about the
design or the play.
And she's fast enough
that she overcomes that.
>> Maybe someday I'll learn how
to play this basketball game.
I'm beginning to doubt it,
but don't have much more time.
[LAUGHTER]
>> We had one lady
to tell us one year--
she called time out.
And she said, we
are grandmothers.
What are you doing?
And we go, we're
grandmothers too.
She just thought you
shouldn't touch them.
>> Well, it's
surprisingly physical.
This is one of the big
differences from when
we played when we were younger.
When we were younger, if
you just touched somebody
like that it was a foul.
Now you're lucky if you don't
get knocked across the floor.
I've had two episodes
of broken ribs.
>> I have not really
suffered any injury,
except a multitude of bruises.
And I've had them
all over my body.
>> I split my eye open.
Fell right here on my face,
got a split in the eye,
pushed all my teeth to one side.
This happened here in a
practice, so I got up,
called the house, told my
husband to call the dentist,
say I'm on my way.
And on the way over, I
was pushing my teeth back
to get them
straightened out again.
And I had a pretty good job.
I had pretty much had
them straightened out
by the time I got there.
But you know, part of the game.
>> You've got to
defend yourself.
If you don't, somebody else is
going to push you around, so--
you might not
always instigate it,
but you've got to protect
yourself if they do.
>> I've had to change a few
things because of my heart.
If I use my left arm, jerk
my left arm in the wrong way,
it'll get out of rhythm.
And then, of course, when
it gets out of rhythm,
if I don't stop and
if I don't give it
time to get back into rhythm,
in fact I will pass out.
If I quit as soon as I can feel
it, then I most of the time
can get it back on its rhythm.
Sometimes I have to
go out of the gym,
not hear that ball bouncing.
It leaves you weak, kind of.
Of course, I had that
problem in high school.
But not as bad as I did now.
They said I was born with
it, so it's just something
you have to play around.
[LAUGHTER]
>> I had breast cancer.
And my big concern
was that I wanted
to make sure that I was going
to be able to play in the State
finals in the fall
of '98 to qualify
to go to Orlando in '99.
And as it turned out, when
the State finals came,
I was due for my chemo
on Monday of this week.
And the games were Friday,
Saturday, and Sunday
for the State games.
So I was able to go and play,
because that was as good
as I was going to get, the day
before I had a chemo treatment.
Of course, I didn't
have any hair,
so I wore this funky little hat.
But I went out and I played.
Then by the time we went
down to play in Orlando,
I was good by then.
That's the year we won the gold,
so I was real happy about that.
>> I had polio when I was about
six years old and had a little
residual weakness
in my right leg,
but nothing to interfere
with me physically much.
In 2001, I broke my ankle.
Then this insidious weakness
came that in the beginning
I really didn't
notice it too much.
But now I began to notice
I couldn't do things.
When you have polio,
you know, they
talk about the neurons and all
this really technical stuff.
And then when you have some
kind of accident or trauma
to your body, it just sets
it off for some reason.
I don't know why.
But I just--
I don't have balance.
Going up and down steps and
stuff became hard for me.
Jo is the player at
this point in time
who's really crying, you
know, unseen tears because she
can't play.
I bet there wasn't
a day in the week
that she would look forward to
any more than going to practice
basketball.
>> I think I miss the
camaraderie of the people more
than I miss the
sports in one way.
I love to be around the team.
They're my friends.
And I love to be there,
like to see them.
And so what else have I got
to do on Thursday morning?
>> She's not fortunate to have
had good health all her life.
Of course, we all--
we won't, more than likely.
But I'm-- I really
feel sorry for her.
>> I don't know.
I can't say enough about it.
I think it's just been
a highlight of my life
actually to do all
this stuff, so--
>> Well, they're my
best friends now.
As long as I've been
playing with them
we haven't had any
disagreements among ourselves.
So that's pretty good, to
have that many women together.
>> We can see ourselves
and each other.
They have their aches and pains.
They dig through it.
We've got one lady
at the church,
she just thinks we
absolutely lost our minds.
Y'all need to quit that stuff.
Mary says, I'm not going to
quit until I have to quit.
And I guess that
keeps them going.
>> Yeah.
Everybody's different, but
we all have the same goals
and everything in mind.
And everybody is
supportive of everybody.
When something happens to one,
it sort of happens to us all.
[MUSIC PLAYING]